Welcome back.
And previously we saw how we can make objects how we could define objects and we saw that there was
really two ways to do that.
So either way that you do that you're going to end up with an object and you're going to be able to
have the same use of that object.
So it's just a matter of how you prefer to define that object and what method works best for you.
So a comment about that constructor method.
And we're going to focus on the literal method.
So we've created an object here and we see that we're able to put that information into the console
by doing console log object.
But what if we actually want to retrieve a specific piece of information.
And with objects it's going to be really easy.
So let me go back in here and refresh it and we see that we've got our object here so I can do object
and I see that I've got my names here so I've got color I've got make I've got doors and this is all
I have to do I can use the dot notation and specify the object name.
So the original main container for the object will be J.
And then I can also specify one of the values that's in there because we've got these named values so
all I have to do.
LBG doors.
And it just makes a whole lot more sense.
So I can even change this to be even more something that makes even more sense semantically where I've
got a car and I've got my car and I've got my make.
So I know that my car is a Ford.
I've got my model I can see it's a Mustang and I've got some additional information so I know it's got
five doors and so on.
So there's also another way to retrieve information.
And this way it has a few advantages.
So although it's not as easy to write I would say this dot notation you can do bracket and we can quote
the property the name of the property that we want to retrieve.
So we can retrieve it within this format as well.
So you're probably wondering well why would we go with this one when we can use this one.
And that's a really good question and the answer to that is that that dot notation although it's easier
to write and easier to read lacks some of the capabilities that the bracket notation has.
And one of the things that bracket notation can do is it can dynamically change the property of the
values so we can do something.
I'm going to go back out into my editor and kind of say that maybe I want Propp and the property is
color.
So if I want to retrieve by the value of car color and maybe we're setting this dynamically so we're
picking it out.
We could do it from a prompt as well.
So we're setting this dynamically.
I can't do something like this.
That's not going to work.
So if I refresh it we get undefined because this is where we actually have to use that bracket notation
and that value because this is this could be a potentially dynamic value.
Well we see that this is our way to actually retrieve back that particular property.
So making this more dynamic I can change this to dollars.
I can refresh the page and I can see that in this format we can't change Propp and we can retrieve back
the different values dynamically.
So basically it gives us more flexibility to retrieve that information as needed.
And that's the reason for going with the bracket notation over the dot notation.
So what I want you to do now is to open up your editor creates a similar object that what I have here
describing a car and then what we're going to ask the user what information using a prompt what they
want to see and then we're going to retrieve that information and put that back into the console.
So a lot of the work is done other than the prompt.
So you can pause the video and you can pretty much work with what we've got displayed here and update
it to really simply ask that prompt and retrieve back that information sending it back into the console.
So give me a few minutes.
Open up your editor try it out you know provide that solution.
So we saw earlier that we've got a prompt so prompt gives us the ability to essentially ask the question.
So what did you want to know about the car.
And of course we're expecting that the user is going to either enter color make doors or model.
So we're going to keep it at that.
And it's as simple as this.
We just have to format this in a question and pass that dynamic value into prompt our own Pete Propp
and then we can output it into the console.
So let's try it.
So what we want to know.
Let's talk a color.
We see that he comes back red.
What do you want to know about the car doors.
See that comes back fly so I know that this should have been a fairly easy challenge.
So that was incorrect slow and sexy model.
I was looking for comes back Mustang.
So this is where you can begin to see that using objects is really useful because the names here just
make sense.
And then retrieving it.
We can also create a dynamic way to retrieve that information.
So now we've seen how we can retrieve information how we can create objects.
So the next lesson I initiated can update some information within that object.
So that's coming up.